doc/api/assignment_tools.md, before:

Introduction
====================
External tools can be associated with Canvas assignments so that students are
able to experience an integrated offering of the tool. Tools can also leverage
LTI services to return submissions and/or scores back to the Canvas gradebook.

The specifics for how grading is achieved depend on the LTI version being used:

- [LTI Advantage: Assignment and Grading Services](#lti_advantage)
- [LTI 1.1 Grade Passback Tools](#outcomes_service)

Tools become associated with Canvas assignments either through the UI during
<a href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor-Guide/How-do-I-add-an-assignment-using-an-external-app/ta-p/656"
target="_blank">assignment creation</a>, or by the tool using the
<a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Items Service</a> to
create assignments.

If configured in via the Canvas UI, Course Designers (Admins/Instructors) will
see a submission type called "External Tool" during assignment creation where
they can select a tool configuration to use for the assignment. The
<a href="file.assignment_selection_placement.html" target="_blank">
assignment_selection placement</a> is often used in conjunction with the
<a href="file.content_item.html" target="_blank">deep linking specification</a>
to allow an Instructor or Course Designer to launch out to the tool and select a
specific resource to be associated to the assignment. When students view
the assignment, instead of seeing a standard Canvas assignment they'll see
the tool loaded in an iframe on the page.

<a name="lti_advantage"></a>
LTI Advantage: Assignment and Grading Services
====================
LTI 1.3 tools can be configured to have access to the
<a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/v2p0/" target="_blank">
Assignment and Grading Services</a> (AGS). Assignment and Grading Services
are a powerful way for tools  to interact with the LMS gradebook to save
time for instructors and students.

Some examples of use cases that are uniquely solvable using AGS that were not
resolvable by the LTI 1.1 Outcomes Service include:

- External tools can return scores for assignments without the need of students
ever accessing the tool.
- Using the Line Items service tools can create columns to store grades in
the gradebook without the need for instructors to manually create them using
<a href="file.assignment_selection_placement.html" target="_blank">deep linking
and the assignment_selection placement</a>.
- Previously returned scores can be cleared out.

In addition to permitting these use cases, many more use cases are described in
the <a
href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti/v1p3/impl#lti-advantage-use-cases"
target="_blank">IMS LTI Advantage Implementation Guide</a>.

##Configuring
To configure an LTI 1.3 tool that has access to AGS, an
<a href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Admin-Guide/How-do-I-configure-an-LTI-key-for-an-account/ta-p/140"
target="_blank">LTI Developer Key must be created</a> with the desired scopes
enabled. This can either be done via the "Manual" method, or by providing raw
JSON or a secure URL that hosts JSON. A full list and description of available
scopes is described in the <a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/v2p0/" target="_blank">
AGS documentation</a>.

For example, the following JSON would create an LTI 1.3 tool that has access to
read and write scores, check for existing scores, and manage line items (ex.
assignments) that are associated with the tool:


```
{  
   "title":"Cool AGS Tool ",
   "scopes":[
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/lineitem",
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/result.readonly",
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/score"
      ],
   "extensions":[  
      {  
         "domain":"agsexample.com",
         "tool_id":"ags-tool-123",
         "platform":"canvas.instructure.com",
         "settings":{  
            "text":"Cool AGS Text",
            "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
            "placements":[                 
               {  
                  "text":"Embed Tool Content as a Canvas Assignment",
                  "enabled":true,
                  "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
                  "placement":"assignment_selection",
                  "message_type":"LtiDeepLinkingRequest",
                  "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri/deeplinkexample"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ],
   "public_jwk":{  
      "kty":"RSA",
      "alg":"RS256",
      "e":"AQAB",
      "kid":"8f796169-0ac4-48a3-a202-fa4f3d814fcd",
      "n":"nZD7QWmIwj-3N_RZ1qJjX6CdibU87y2l02yMay4KunambalP9g0fU9yZLwLX9WYJINcXZDUf6QeZ-SSbblET-h8Q4OvfSQ7iuu0WqcvBGy8M0qoZ7I-NiChw8dyybMJHgpiP_AyxpCQnp3bQ6829kb3fopbb4cAkOilwVRBYPhRLboXma0cwcllJHPLvMp1oGa7Ad8osmmJhXhM9qdFFASg_OCQdPnYVzp8gOFeOGwlXfSFEgt5vgeU25E-ycUOREcnP7BnMUk7wpwYqlE537LWGOV5z_1Dqcqc9LmN-z4HmNV7b23QZW4_mzKIOY4IqjmnUGgLU9ycFj5YGDCts7Q",
      "use":"sig"
   },
   "description":"1.3 Test Tool",
   "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri",
   "oidc_initiation_url":"https://your.oidc_initiation_url"
}
```


NOTE: Using AGS does not require configuration of any specific placements, so
the placement(s) here could be any placement(s).

##Available Services
Canvas supports the following AGS services:

- <a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Items</a>
- <a href="/doc/api/score.html" target="_blank">Score</a>
- <a href="/doc/api/result.html" target="_blank">Result</a>

##Accessing AGS
Before a tool can run AGS requests, it must be available in the course that it
wishes to interact with, and also complete the
<a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-lti-advantage-services" target="_blank">
OAuth2 Client Credentials</a> grant to obtain an access token. This covered in
depth in the <a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/security/v1p0/#securing_web_services" target="_blank">
IMS LTI Security Framework, SEC 4</a>.

##Extensions
Canvas has extended several AGS endpoints to support deeper grading
integrations. Here, we will focus on these extensions and describe how tools can
be configured to leverage AGS in Canvas.

###Line Item Extension: Creating deep linked assignments
The <a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Item service</a> has been extended
to allow an external tool to not only create gradebook columns (i.e. assignments)
in Canvas, but also connect the column/assignment to a specific LTI resource on
the external tool. This means that when the student accesses the assignment from
Canvas, they are able to see the external tool content directly in the page,
complete their assessment on the tool side, and have grades returned without
the instructor having to manually create assignments in Canvas.

This also allows tools to introduce new workflows, such as allowing instructors
to launch from a Course Navigation Placement, select multiple resources, and
import them into their course.

###Score Extension: Creating submission data
The <a href="/doc/api/score.html" target="_blank">Score service</a> has been extended to allow
an external tool to submission data back to the Canvas Gradebook. This data is
then exposed in the Submission Details and Speedgrader Views so that both
students and teachers can see what was submitted to the external tool without
leaving Canvas. Support for basic urls, text, and LTI links are supported.


<a name="outcomes_service"></a>
LTI 1.1 Grade Passback Tools
====================

Tools can know that they have been launched in a graded context because
additional parameters are sent across when a student accesses the external
tool assignment. Specifically, the `lis_outcome_service_url` and
`lis_result_sourced_id` are sent as specified in the LTI 1.1 specification.
Grades are passed back to Canvas from the tool's servers using the
<a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560472">
outcomes component of LTI 1.1</a>. Notably, one of the major limitations of the
LTI 1.1 Outcomes Service is the inability of tools to return grades _before_ a
student accesses the assignment from Canvas. If this functionality is desirable,

you should upgrade to LTI Advantage's Assignment and Grading Services.

## Data Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back values as submission text in canvas.
The key is `ext_outcome_data_values_accepted` and the value is a comma separated list of
types of data accepted. The currently available data types are `url` and `text`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_data_values_accepted=url,text`

### Returning Data Values from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply these values, it can augment the POX sent
with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Only one type of resultData should be sent, if multiple types are sent the tool
consumer behavior is undefined and is implementation-specific. Canvas will take
the text value and ignore the url value if both are sent.

####Text

Add a `resultData` node with a `text` node of plain text in the same encoding as
the rest of the document within it like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <text>text data for canvas submission</text>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

####URL

Add a `resultData` node with a `url` node within it like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <url>https://www.example.com/cool_lti_link_submission</url>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

#### LTI Launch URL

Add a `resultData` node with a `ltiLaunchUrl` node like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <ltiLaunchUrl>https://some.launch.url/launch?lti_submission_id=42</ltiLaunchUrl>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

## Total Score Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back a raw score value instead of a percentage.
The key is `ext_outcome_result_total_score_accepted` and the value is `true`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_result_total_score_accepted=true`

### Returning Total Score from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply this value, it can augment the POX sent
with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Simply add a node called `resultTotalScore` instead of `resultScore`. If both are
sent, then `resultScore` will be ignored. The `textString` value  should be
an Integer or Float value.

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultTotalScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>50</textString>
          </resultTotalScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

# Submission Details Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back submission metadata not directly related to the result.

Details about the submission the external tool wants to supply
should augment the POX sent with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>
Simply add a node called `submissionDetails` to the `replaceResultRequest` node. Any data regarding
the submission that is not related directly to the result will be included in this node.

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <!-- Added element -->
      <submissionDetails>
        ...
      </submissionDetails>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

## Submission Submitted At Timestamp Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back the submission submitted at timestamp.
The key is `ext_outcome_submission_submitted_at_accepted` and the value is `true`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_submission_submitted_at_accepted=true`

### Submission Submitted At Timestamp from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply this value, it can augment the POX sent
with the submission submitted at value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Simply add a node called `submittedAt` to the `submissionDetails` node. The text
string must be an <a href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339">iso8601 formatted timestamp</a>.
If included, then it will override any existing submitted_at value on the submission even when
result score or result total score are not present.


```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <submissionDetails>
        <!-- Added element -->
        <submittedAt>
          2017-04-16T18:54:36.736+00:00
        </submittedAt>
      </submissionDetails>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

Commit message:

basic outcomes: return 422 on codeMajor failure
* was previously returning 200 status code, even with a basic outcomes
failure expressed by the imsx_codeMajor xml attribute

closes INTEROP-6514
flag=none

test plan:
* set up grade passback by following these instructions:
https://gerrit.instructure.com/plugins/gitiles/canvas-lms/+/refs/heads/master/doc/lti_manual/11_testing.md#1_1-basic-outcomes-grade-passback
* grade passback with a score greater than 1.0 should now have a 422
reponse code, not a 200

Change-Id: Ia0fddb575622b1774442224ebf3d1c2389463308
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/265117
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Weston Dransfield <wdransfield@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Mysti Lilla <mysti@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Xander Moffatt <xmoffatt@instructure.com>

doc/api/assignment_tools.md, after:

Introduction
====================
External tools can be associated with Canvas assignments so that students are
able to experience an integrated offering of the tool. Tools can also leverage
LTI services to return submissions and/or scores back to the Canvas gradebook.

The specifics for how grading is achieved depend on the LTI version being used:

- [LTI Advantage: Assignment and Grading Services](#lti_advantage)
- [LTI 1.1 Grade Passback Tools](#outcomes_service)

Tools become associated with Canvas assignments either through the UI during
<a href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor-Guide/How-do-I-add-an-assignment-using-an-external-app/ta-p/656"
target="_blank">assignment creation</a>, or by the tool using the
<a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Items Service</a> to
create assignments.

If configured in via the Canvas UI, Course Designers (Admins/Instructors) will
see a submission type called "External Tool" during assignment creation where
they can select a tool configuration to use for the assignment. The
<a href="file.assignment_selection_placement.html" target="_blank">
assignment_selection placement</a> is often used in conjunction with the
<a href="file.content_item.html" target="_blank">deep linking specification</a>
to allow an Instructor or Course Designer to launch out to the tool and select a
specific resource to be associated to the assignment. When students view
the assignment, instead of seeing a standard Canvas assignment they'll see
the tool loaded in an iframe on the page.

<a name="lti_advantage"></a>
LTI Advantage: Assignment and Grading Services
====================
LTI 1.3 tools can be configured to have access to the
<a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/v2p0/" target="_blank">
Assignment and Grading Services</a> (AGS). Assignment and Grading Services
are a powerful way for tools  to interact with the LMS gradebook to save
time for instructors and students.

Some examples of use cases that are uniquely solvable using AGS that were not
resolvable by the LTI 1.1 Outcomes Service include:

- External tools can return scores for assignments without the need of students
ever accessing the tool.
- Using the Line Items service tools can create columns to store grades in
the gradebook without the need for instructors to manually create them using
<a href="file.assignment_selection_placement.html" target="_blank">deep linking
and the assignment_selection placement</a>.
- Previously returned scores can be cleared out.

In addition to permitting these use cases, many more use cases are described in
the <a
href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti/v1p3/impl#lti-advantage-use-cases"
target="_blank">IMS LTI Advantage Implementation Guide</a>.

##Configuring
To configure an LTI 1.3 tool that has access to AGS, an
<a href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Admin-Guide/How-do-I-configure-an-LTI-key-for-an-account/ta-p/140"
target="_blank">LTI Developer Key must be created</a> with the desired scopes
enabled. This can either be done via the "Manual" method, or by providing raw
JSON or a secure URL that hosts JSON. A full list and description of available
scopes is described in the <a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/v2p0/" target="_blank">
AGS documentation</a>.

For example, the following JSON would create an LTI 1.3 tool that has access to
read and write scores, check for existing scores, and manage line items (ex.
assignments) that are associated with the tool:


```
{  
   "title":"Cool AGS Tool ",
   "scopes":[
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/lineitem",
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/result.readonly",
      "https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-ags/scope/score"
      ],
   "extensions":[  
      {  
         "domain":"agsexample.com",
         "tool_id":"ags-tool-123",
         "platform":"canvas.instructure.com",
         "settings":{  
            "text":"Cool AGS Text",
            "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
            "placements":[                 
               {  
                  "text":"Embed Tool Content as a Canvas Assignment",
                  "enabled":true,
                  "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
                  "placement":"assignment_selection",
                  "message_type":"LtiDeepLinkingRequest",
                  "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri/deeplinkexample"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ],
   "public_jwk":{  
      "kty":"RSA",
      "alg":"RS256",
      "e":"AQAB",
      "kid":"8f796169-0ac4-48a3-a202-fa4f3d814fcd",
      "n":"nZD7QWmIwj-3N_RZ1qJjX6CdibU87y2l02yMay4KunambalP9g0fU9yZLwLX9WYJINcXZDUf6QeZ-SSbblET-h8Q4OvfSQ7iuu0WqcvBGy8M0qoZ7I-NiChw8dyybMJHgpiP_AyxpCQnp3bQ6829kb3fopbb4cAkOilwVRBYPhRLboXma0cwcllJHPLvMp1oGa7Ad8osmmJhXhM9qdFFASg_OCQdPnYVzp8gOFeOGwlXfSFEgt5vgeU25E-ycUOREcnP7BnMUk7wpwYqlE537LWGOV5z_1Dqcqc9LmN-z4HmNV7b23QZW4_mzKIOY4IqjmnUGgLU9ycFj5YGDCts7Q",
      "use":"sig"
   },
   "description":"1.3 Test Tool",
   "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri",
   "oidc_initiation_url":"https://your.oidc_initiation_url"
}
```


NOTE: Using AGS does not require configuration of any specific placements, so
the placement(s) here could be any placement(s).

##Available Services
Canvas supports the following AGS services:

- <a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Items</a>
- <a href="/doc/api/score.html" target="_blank">Score</a>
- <a href="/doc/api/result.html" target="_blank">Result</a>

##Accessing AGS
Before a tool can run AGS requests, it must be available in the course that it
wishes to interact with, and also complete the
<a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-lti-advantage-services" target="_blank">
OAuth2 Client Credentials</a> grant to obtain an access token. This covered in
depth in the <a href="https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/security/v1p0/#securing_web_services" target="_blank">
IMS LTI Security Framework, SEC 4</a>.

##Extensions
Canvas has extended several AGS endpoints to support deeper grading
integrations. Here, we will focus on these extensions and describe how tools can
be configured to leverage AGS in Canvas.

###Line Item Extension: Creating deep linked assignments
The <a href="/doc/api/line_items.html" target="_blank">Line Item service</a> has been extended
to allow an external tool to not only create gradebook columns (i.e. assignments)
in Canvas, but also connect the column/assignment to a specific LTI resource on
the external tool. This means that when the student accesses the assignment from
Canvas, they are able to see the external tool content directly in the page,
complete their assessment on the tool side, and have grades returned without
the instructor having to manually create assignments in Canvas.

This also allows tools to introduce new workflows, such as allowing instructors
to launch from a Course Navigation Placement, select multiple resources, and
import them into their course.

###Score Extension: Creating submission data
The <a href="/doc/api/score.html" target="_blank">Score service</a> has been extended to allow
an external tool to submission data back to the Canvas Gradebook. This data is
then exposed in the Submission Details and Speedgrader Views so that both
students and teachers can see what was submitted to the external tool without
leaving Canvas. Support for basic urls, text, and LTI links are supported.


<a name="outcomes_service"></a>
LTI 1.1 Grade Passback Tools
====================

Tools can know that they have been launched in a graded context because
additional parameters are sent across when a student accesses the external
tool assignment. Specifically, the `lis_outcome_service_url` and
`lis_result_sourced_id` are sent as specified in the LTI 1.1 specification.
Grades are passed back to Canvas from the tool's servers using the
<a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560472">
outcomes component of LTI 1.1</a>. Notably, one of the major limitations of the
LTI 1.1 Outcomes Service is the inability of tools to return grades _before_ a
student accesses the assignment from Canvas. If this functionality is desirable,
you should upgrade to LTI Advantage's Assignment and Grading Services.

**Note** that in the past Canvas would return a 200 HTTP response code, even if the
XML in the body of the response indicated failure. This behavior has changed,
and now if the `imsx_codeMajor` in the XML response is not `success`, then
Canvas will return a 422 (Unprocessable Entity) HTTP response code.

## Data Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back values as submission text in canvas.
The key is `ext_outcome_data_values_accepted` and the value is a comma separated list of
types of data accepted. The currently available data types are `url` and `text`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_data_values_accepted=url,text`

### Returning Data Values from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply these values, it can augment the POX sent
with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Only one type of resultData should be sent, if multiple types are sent the tool
consumer behavior is undefined and is implementation-specific. Canvas will take
the text value and ignore the url value if both are sent.

####Text

Add a `resultData` node with a `text` node of plain text in the same encoding as
the rest of the document within it like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <text>text data for canvas submission</text>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

####URL

Add a `resultData` node with a `url` node within it like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <url>https://www.example.com/cool_lti_link_submission</url>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

#### LTI Launch URL

Add a `resultData` node with a `ltiLaunchUrl` node like this:

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultData>
            <ltiLaunchUrl>https://some.launch.url/launch?lti_submission_id=42</ltiLaunchUrl>
          </resultData>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

## Total Score Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back a raw score value instead of a percentage.
The key is `ext_outcome_result_total_score_accepted` and the value is `true`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_result_total_score_accepted=true`

### Returning Total Score from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply this value, it can augment the POX sent
with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Simply add a node called `resultTotalScore` instead of `resultScore`. If both are
sent, then `resultScore` will be ignored. The `textString` value  should be
an Integer or Float value.

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <!-- Added element -->
          <resultTotalScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>50</textString>
          </resultTotalScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

# Submission Details Return Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back submission metadata not directly related to the result.

Details about the submission the external tool wants to supply
should augment the POX sent with the grading value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>
Simply add a node called `submissionDetails` to the `replaceResultRequest` node. Any data regarding
the submission that is not related directly to the result will be included in this node.

```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <!-- Added element -->
      <submissionDetails>
        ...
      </submissionDetails>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```

## Submission Submitted At Timestamp Extension

Canvas sends an extension parameter for assignment launches that allows the tool
provider to pass back the submission submitted at timestamp.
The key is `ext_outcome_submission_submitted_at_accepted` and the value is `true`.
The added launch parameter will look like this:

`ext_outcome_submission_submitted_at_accepted=true`

### Submission Submitted At Timestamp from Tool Provider

If the external tool wants to supply this value, it can augment the POX sent
with the submission submitted at value. <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/LTI/v1p1/ltiIMGv1p1.html#_Toc319560473">LTI replaceResult POX</a>

Simply add a node called `submittedAt` to the `submissionDetails` node. The text
string must be an <a href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339">iso8601 formatted timestamp</a>.
If included, then it will override any existing submitted_at value on the submission even when
result score or result total score are not present.


```xml
<?xml version = "1.0" encoding = "UTF-8"?>
<imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/services/ltiv1p1/xsd/imsoms_v1p0">
  <imsx_POXHeader>
    <imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
      <imsx_version>V1.0</imsx_version>
      <imsx_messageIdentifier>999999123</imsx_messageIdentifier>
    </imsx_POXRequestHeaderInfo>
  </imsx_POXHeader>
  <imsx_POXBody>
    <replaceResultRequest>
      <submissionDetails>
        <!-- Added element -->
        <submittedAt>
          2017-04-16T18:54:36.736+00:00
        </submittedAt>
      </submissionDetails>
      <resultRecord>
        <sourcedGUID>
          <sourcedId>3124567</sourcedId>
        </sourcedGUID>
        <result>
          <resultScore>
            <language>en</language>
            <textString>0.92</textString>
          </resultScore>
        </result>
      </resultRecord>
    </replaceResultRequest>
  </imsx_POXBody>
</imsx_POXEnvelopeRequest>
```
