doc/api/group_category_csv.md, before:

Group Category Import Format Documentation
==========================================

Group categories can be updated in bulk by using the Group Categories Import API. Each row
in a CSV file represents a user to be added to a group in the group category.

Standard CSV rules apply (including adherence to the CSV RFC 4180 format):

* The first row will be interpreted as a header defining the ordering of your columns. This
header row is mandatory.
* Fields that contain a comma must be surrounded by double-quotes.
* Fields that contain double-quotes must also be surrounded by double-quotes, with the
internal double-quotes doubled. Example: Chevy "The Man" Chase would be included in
the CSV as "Chevy ""The Man"" Chase".

All text should be UTF-8 encoded.

All timestamps are sent and returned in ISO 8601 format.  All timestamps default to UTC time zone
unless specified.

    YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ

Group Category Data Format
==========================

group_category.csv
------------------

<table class="sis_csv">
<tr>
<th>Field Name</th>
<th>Data Type</th>
<th>Required</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>canvas_user_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The canvas id for a user, required to identify a user.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>user_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>A unique identifier used to reference users in the enrollments table.
This identifier must not change for the user, and must be globally unique. In the user interface,
 this is called the SIS ID.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>login_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The name that a user will use to
login to Instructure. If you have an authentication service configured (like
LDAP), this will be their username from the remote system.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>group_name</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The name of the group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>canvas_group_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The canvas id for a group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>group_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>A unique identifier used to reference groups in the group_users data.
This identifier must not change for the group, and must be globally unique.</td>
</tr>
</table>

&#42; canvas_user_id, user_id, or login_id is required and group_name, 
canvas_group_id or group_id is required.

Sample:
<pre>
canvas_user_id,user_id,login_id,group_name,canvas_group_id,group_id
92,,,Awesome Group,,
,13aa3,,,45,
,,mlemon,,,g125
</pre>

Commit message:

don't include group info when none exist
test plan
 - create a new group category in a course
 - run an export from the import page link
 - the group_id and group_canvas_id columns will not exist

fixes VICE-969
flag=none

Change-Id: Idd16c07ada0487c2ab0a65506d1195c39d369b5c
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/249921
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Caleb Guanzon <cguanzon@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Caleb Guanzon <cguanzon@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Caleb Guanzon <cguanzon@instructure.com>

doc/api/group_category_csv.md, after:

Group Category Import Format Documentation
==========================================

Group categories can be updated in bulk by using the Group Categories Import API. Each row
in a CSV file represents a user to be added to a group in the group category.

Groups that don't exist in the UI will be created. Groups that are created will only use the
group_name column for creation. User columns in the file are used to identify the user to be
added to the group. Users names are available in the group_category export, but not used or
updated in the import process.

Standard CSV rules apply (including adherence to the CSV RFC 4180 format):

* The first row will be interpreted as a header defining the ordering of your columns. This
header row is mandatory.
* Fields that contain a comma must be surrounded by double-quotes.
* Fields that contain double-quotes must also be surrounded by double-quotes, with the
internal double-quotes doubled. Example: Chevy "The Man" Chase would be included in
the CSV as "Chevy ""The Man"" Chase".

All text should be UTF-8 encoded.

Group Category Data Format
==========================

group_category.csv
------------------

<table class="sis_csv">
<tr>
<th>Field Name</th>
<th>Data Type</th>
<th>Required</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>canvas_user_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The canvas id for a user, required to identify a user.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>user_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>A unique identifier used to reference users in the enrollments table.
This identifier must not change for the user, and must be globally unique. In the user interface,
 this is called the SIS ID.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>login_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The name that a user will use to
login to Instructure. If you have an authentication service configured (like
LDAP), this will be their username from the remote system.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>group_name</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The name of the group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>canvas_group_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>The canvas id for a group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>group_id</td>
<td>text</td>
<td>✓&#42;</td>
<td>A unique identifier used to reference groups in the group_users data.
This identifier must not change for the group, and must be globally unique.
This column is for identification and does not populate new groups with sis_ids</td>
</tr>
</table>

&#42; canvas_user_id, user_id, or login_id is required and group_name, 
canvas_group_id or group_id is required.

Sample:
<pre>
canvas_user_id,user_id,login_id,group_name,canvas_group_id,group_id
92,,,Awesome Group,,
,13aa3,,,45,
,,mlemon,,,g125
</pre>

<pre>
canvas_user_id,user_id,login_id,group_name
92,,,Awesome Group
,13aa3,,Other Group
,,mlemon,Awesome Group
</pre>
