doc/api/lti_window_post_message.md, before:

# Using window.postMessage in LTI Tools

Canvas listens for events sent through the `window.postMessage` Javascript
API (docs <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage" target="_blank">here</a>)
from LTI tools and other children rendered in iframes or opened in new tabs/windows. Tools
can send various types of events to resize windows, launch in new windows, or other
functionality. Note that this is not part of the LTI specification, and is Canvas-specific.
In addition, these messages are not currently supported by any of the Canvas mobile apps, only
the web version of Canvas.

The data sent to `window.postMessage` can be of any type, and each message type looks for different
data. Most data is sent as an object with a `subject` property.

Some of these message handlers require the presence of a `token`, which identifies the tool launch.
This token is present in the launch as a custom variable, `$com.instructure.PostMessageToken`, and
should be passed in postMessage calls if it's present.

### Message Recipient

**Note: Previous versions of this documentation recommended always sending messages to `window.top`.**
**This is no longer recommended, as tools should target the parent window they are embedded in.**

If the LTI tool is launched in a iframe, as is most common, then postMessages should be sent to the window
embedding the LTI tool (usually accessible by `window.parent`). However, if the tool is launched in a new tab,
window, or popup, then postMessages should be directed to `window.opener`. The examples will use `window.parent`,
but in practice, the target recipient can sometimes also be `window.opener`.

The LTI Platform Storage messages (`lti.get_data` and `lti.put_data`) should be sent to either the
direct parent frame, or to a named frame that will be present in `window.parent.frames`. If this
named frame is present, it will be returned in the `lti.capabilities.response` message and
also present in the `lti_storage_target` body parameter in the LTI 1.3 Login and Launch requests.
This is also defined in the [Platform Storage spec](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-cs-pm/v0p1#target-frame).

### Message Responses

Most message handlers will respond with a postMessage with a subject that matches the intial subject,
with `.response` appended. If an error occurs during message handling, the response postMessage will
contain an `error` property with a `code` and a `message`.

Sample code for receiving the response messages:

```js
window.addEventListener('message', function (event) {
  // Process response
})
```

Messages sent by a tool that has been launched from a Canvas mobile app will not receive any response messages.

# Message Types

## lti.capabilities

**At one point, this message type was named 'org.imsglobal.lti.capabilities', but the prefix**
**was dropped before finalizing the spec. This format is no longer supported.**

Responds with a list of subjects that Canvas will respond to, and if necessary the named
frame to address each subject to. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec, defined
[here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-cs-pm/v0p1#capabilities-request-postmessage).

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.capabilities"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.capabilities"
- supported_messages: array of supported message types with these properties:
  - subject: the string name of each message type
  - frame: (optional) the named frame on the parent window to which postMessages should be sent

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.capabilities'}, '*')
```

## lti.put_data

**At one point, this message type was named 'org.imsglobal.lti.put_data', but the prefix**
**was dropped before finalizing the spec. This format is no longer supported.**

Stores the provided `value` at the provided `key` in Canvas's [localstorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage),
partitioned by tool. Data stored by one tool cannot be accessed by another, is
only stored in the user's browser, and is short-lived. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec,
defined [here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-pm-s/v0p1).

The spec requires that this message's target origin be set to the platform's OIDC Authorization url
as defined [here](file.lti_dev_key_config.html#step-2), so that the tool can be certain that Canvas
is the entity receiving the message. To enable this feature, Canvas also requires that messages
with this target origin are sent to the `post_message_forwarding` frame, which is a sibling frame to the tool.
For now, tools are also still allowed to send this message directly to the parent window and use the wildcard `*` origin, although this does not conform to the spec.

All LTI login and launch requests include the `lti_storage_target` parameter, which signals to the
tool which frame should receive these messages. The default value is `_parent`, which means messages
should be sent to `window.parent`. When the value is something else (like `post_message_forwarding`),
the tool should send message to the frame with that name present at `window.parent.frames[lti_storage_target]`.

**Note:** When a tool is launched from within an active RCE (Rich Content Editor) this sibling
frame may not be available, since the RCE uses an iframe to represent the editor box. If the
message sent to this frame using this origin doesn't receive a timely response, the tool should
fall back to sending the message to the parent window using the wildcard `*` origin.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.put_data"
- key: the string key to store `value` at
- value: the string to store at `key`, or `null` to remove an existing value
- message_id: any random string value. a UUID is easiest

Returned postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize.response"
- key: the same key provided in the initial message
- value: the same value provided in the initial message
- message_id: the same message_id provided in the initial message

```js
window.parent.frames['post_message_forwarding'].postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.put_data',
    key: 'hello',
    value: 'world',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  'http://sso.canvaslms.com'
)

window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.put_data',
    key: 'hello',
    value: 'world',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.get_data

**At one point, this message type was named 'org.imsglobal.lti.get_data', but the prefix**
**was dropped before finalizing the spec. This format is no longer supported.**

Fetches the value stored at the provided `key` in Canvas's [localstorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage),
partitioned by tool. Data stored by one tool cannot be accessed by another, is
only stored in the user's browser, and is short-lived. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec,
defined [here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-pm-s/v0p1).

The spec requires that this message's target origin be set to the platform's OIDC Authorization url
as defined [here](file.lti_dev_key_config.html#step-2), so that the tool can be certain that Canvas
is the entity receiving the message. To enable this feature, Canvas also requires that messages
with this target origin are sent to the `post_message_forwarding` frame, which is a sibling frame to the tool.
For now, tools are also still allowed to send this message directly to the parent window and use the wildcard `*` origin, although this does not conform to the spec.

All LTI login and launch requests include the `lti_storage_target` parameter, which signals to the
tool which frame should receive these messages. The default value is `_parent`, which means messages
should be sent to `window.parent`. When the value is something else (like `post_message_forwarding`),
the tool should send message to the frame with that name present at `window.parent.frames[lti_storage_target]`.

**Note:** When a tool is launched from within an active RCE (Rich Content Editor) this sibling
frame may not be available, since the RCE uses an iframe to represent the editor box. If the
message sent to this frame using this origin doesn't receive a timely response, the tool should
fall back to sending the message to the parent window using the wildcard `*` origin.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.get_data"
- key: the string key for the retrieved value
- message_id: any random string value. a UUID is easiest

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.get_data"
- key: the same key provided in the initial message
- value: the value, if any, stored at that key in Canvas's localstorage. `null` will be sent if the key/value pair doesn't exist.
- message_id: the same message_id provided in the initial message

```js
window.parent.frames['post_message_forwarding'].postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.get_data',
    key: 'hello',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  'http://sso.canvaslms.com'
)

window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.get_data',
    key: 'hello',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## requestFullWindowLaunch

Launches the tool that sent the event in a full-window context (ie not inside a Canvas iframe).

**Required properties:**

- subject: "requestFullWindowLaunch"
- data: either a string or an object
  - if a string, a url for relaunching the tool
  - if an object, has required sub-properties
- data.url: a url for relaunching the tool
- data.placement: the Canvas placement that the tool was launched in. Provided in the 1.3 id token
  under the custom claim section (`https://www.instructure.com/placement`).
- data.resource_link_id: the Canvas resource_link_id for the resource launched. Provided in the 1.3
  id token under the `resource_link` claim (`https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti/claim/resource_link#id`).

**Optional properties:**

- data.launchType: defaults to "same_window"
  - "same_window": launches the tool in the same window, replacing Canvas entirely
  - "new_window": launches the tool in a new tab/window, which depends on user preference
  - "popup": launches the tool in a popup window
- data.launchOptions.width: for launchType: popup, defines the popup window's width. Defaults to 800.
- data.launchOptions.height: for launchType: popup, defines the popup window's height. Defaults to 600.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'requestFullWindowLaunch',
    data: {
      url: 'https://example-tool.com/launch',
      placement: 'course_navigation',
      launchType: 'new_window',
      launchOptions: {
        width: 1000,
        height: 800,
      },
    },
  },
  '*'
)
```

## toggleCourseNavigationMenu

Opens and closes the course navigation sidebar, giving more space for the tool to display.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "toggleCourseNavigationMenu"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'toggleCourseNavigationMenu'}, '*')
```

## lti.resourceImported

Notifies the Canvas page holding the tool that a resource has finished importing.
Canvas will respond by reloading the page, if the tool was present in the external
apps tray. Used on wiki pages.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.resourceImported"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.resourceImported'}, '*')
```

## lti.hideRightSideWrapper

Tells Canvas to remove the right side nav in the assignments view.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.hideRightSideWrapper"

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.hideRightSideWrapper',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.frameResize

Tells Canvas to change the height of the iframe containing the tool.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.frameResize"
- height: integer, in px

**Optional properties:**

- token: postMessage token, discussed above.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.frameResize',
    height: 400,
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.fetchWindowSize

Sends a postMessage event back to the tool with details about the window size of
the tool's containing iframe.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize.response"
- height: height of the iframe
- width: width of the iframe
- footer: height of the "#fixed_bottom" HTML element or 0 if not found
- offset: [jquery.offset()](https://api.jquery.com/offset/) of the iframe's wrapper
- scrollY: the number of px that the iframe is scrolled vertically

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.fetchWindowSize'}, '*')
```

## lti.showModuleNavigation

Toggles the module navigation footer based on the message's content.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.showModuleNavigation"
- show: Boolean, whether to show or hide the footer

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.showModuleNavigation',
    show: true,
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.scrollToTop

Scrolls the iframe all the way to the top of its container.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.scrollToTop"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.scrollToTop'}, '*')
```

## lti.setUnloadMessage

Sets a message to be shown in a browser dialog before page closes (ie
"Do you really want to leave this page?")

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.setUnloadMessage"

**Optional properties:**

- message: The message to be shown in the dialog. Most browser no longer
  support a custom message here, so a generic (built-in to the browser) message
  will be shown.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.setUnloadMessage',
    message: 'Are you sure you want to leave this app?',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.removeUnloadMessage

Clears any set message to be shown on page close.

Required properties

- subject: "lti.removeUnloadMessage"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.removeUnloadMessage'}, '*')
```

## lti.screenReaderAlert

Shows an alert for screen readers.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.screenReaderAlert"
- body: The contents of the alert.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.screenReaderAlert',
    body: 'An alert just for screen readers',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.showAlert

Shows an alert using Canvas's alert system, and includes the name of the LTI
tool that sent the message.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.showAlert"
- body: The contents of the alert - can either be a string, or JSON string.

**Optional properties:**

- alertType: "success", "warning", or "error". Defaults to "success".
- title: A display name for the tool. If not provided, Canvas will attempt to
  supply the tool name or default to "External Tool".

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.showAlert',
    alertType: 'warning',
    body: 'An warning to be shown',
    title: 'Tool Name',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.enableScrollEvents

Sends a debounced postMessage event to the tool every time its containing
iframe is scrolled.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.enableScrollEvents"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.scroll"
- scrollY: the number of px that the iframe is scrolled vertically

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.enableScrollEvents'}, '*')
```

Commit message:

clarify fall back for LTI platform storage
why:
* make it very clear when this API is supported
and what to do when it's not

closes INTEROP-8273
flag=none

test plan:
* info is accurate

Change-Id: I158a6264d044c911020cf97367f332df85a33d03
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/332247
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Ryan Hawkins <ryan.hawkins@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Ryan Hawkins <ryan.hawkins@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Alexis Nast <alexis.nast@instructure.com>

doc/api/lti_window_post_message.md, after:

# Using window.postMessage in LTI Tools

Canvas listens for events sent through the `window.postMessage` Javascript
API (docs <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage" target="_blank">here</a>)
from LTI tools and other children rendered in iframes or opened in new tabs/windows. Tools
can send various types of events to resize windows, launch in new windows, or other
functionality. Note that this is not part of the LTI specification, and is Canvas-specific.
In addition, these messages are not currently supported by any of the Canvas mobile apps, only
the web version of Canvas.

The data sent to `window.postMessage` can be of any type, and each message type looks for different
data. Most data is sent as an object with a `subject` property.

Some of these message handlers require the presence of a `token`, which identifies the tool launch.
This token is present in the launch as a custom variable, `$com.instructure.PostMessageToken`, and
should be passed in postMessage calls if it's present.

### Message Recipient

**Note: Previous versions of this documentation recommended always sending messages to `window.top`.**
**This is no longer recommended, as tools should target the parent window they are embedded in.**

If the LTI tool is launched in a iframe, as is most common, then postMessages should be sent to the window
embedding the LTI tool (usually accessible by `window.parent`). However, if the tool is launched in a new tab,
window, or popup, then postMessages should be directed to `window.opener`. The examples will use `window.parent`,
but in practice, the target recipient can sometimes also be `window.opener`.

The LTI Platform Storage messages (`lti.get_data` and `lti.put_data`) should be sent to either the
direct parent frame, or to a named frame that will be present in `window.parent.frames`. If this
named frame is present, it will be returned in the `lti.capabilities.response` message and
also present in the `lti_storage_target` body parameter in the LTI 1.3 Login and Launch requests.
This is also defined in the [Platform Storage spec](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-cs-pm/v0p1#target-frame).

### Message Responses

Most message handlers will respond with a postMessage with a subject that matches the intial subject,
with `.response` appended. If an error occurs during message handling, the response postMessage will
contain an `error` property with a `code` and a `message`.

Sample code for receiving the response messages:

```js
window.addEventListener('message', function (event) {
  // Process response
})
```

Messages sent by a tool that has been launched from a Canvas mobile app will not receive any response messages.

# Message Types

## lti.capabilities

Responds with a list of subjects that Canvas will respond to, and if necessary the named
frame to address each subject to. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec, defined
[here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-cs-pm/v0p1#capabilities-request-postmessage).

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.capabilities"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.capabilities"
- supported_messages: array of supported message types with these properties:
  - subject: the string name of each message type
  - frame: (optional) the named frame on the parent window to which postMessages should be sent

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.capabilities'}, '*')
```

## lti.put_data

Stores the provided `value` at the provided `key` in Canvas's [localstorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage),
partitioned by tool. Data stored by one tool cannot be accessed by another, is
only stored in the user's browser, and is short-lived. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec,
defined [here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-pm-s/v0p1).

The spec requires that this message's target origin be set to the platform's OIDC Authorization url
as defined [here](file.lti_dev_key_config.html#step-2), so that the tool can be certain that Canvas
is the entity receiving the message. To enable this feature, Canvas also requires that messages
with this target origin are sent to the `post_message_forwarding` frame, which is a sibling frame to the tool.
For now, tools are also still allowed to send this message directly to the parent window and use the wildcard `*` origin, although this does not conform to the spec.

Support for this API is signalled using the `lti_storage_target` parameter, which is included in
the LTI 1.3 login and launch requests. If this parameter absent, tools should use cookies instead
of trying to use this postMessage. The default value for this parameter is `_parent`, which means
messages should be sent to `window.parent`. When the value is something else (like `post_message_forwarding`),
the tool should send message to the frame with that name present at `window.parent.frames[lti_storage_target]`.

**Note:** When a tool is launched from within an active RCE (Rich Content Editor) this sibling
frame may not be available, since the RCE uses an iframe to represent the editor box. If the
message sent to this frame using this origin doesn't receive a timely response, the tool should
fall back to sending the message to the parent window using the wildcard `*` origin.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.put_data"
- key: the string key to store `value` at
- value: the string to store at `key`, or `null` to remove an existing value
- message_id: any random string value. a UUID is easiest

Returned postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize.response"
- key: the same key provided in the initial message
- value: the same value provided in the initial message
- message_id: the same message_id provided in the initial message

```js
window.parent.frames['post_message_forwarding'].postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.put_data',
    key: 'hello',
    value: 'world',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  'http://sso.canvaslms.com'
)

window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.put_data',
    key: 'hello',
    value: 'world',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.get_data

Fetches the value stored at the provided `key` in Canvas's [localstorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage),
partitioned by tool. Data stored by one tool cannot be accessed by another, is
only stored in the user's browser, and is short-lived. Part of the LTI Platform Storage spec,
defined [here](https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/lti-pm-s/v0p1).

The spec requires that this message's target origin be set to the platform's OIDC Authorization url
as defined [here](file.lti_dev_key_config.html#step-2), so that the tool can be certain that Canvas
is the entity receiving the message. To enable this feature, Canvas also requires that messages
with this target origin are sent to the `post_message_forwarding` frame, which is a sibling frame to the tool.
For now, tools are also still allowed to send this message directly to the parent window and use the wildcard `*` origin, although this does not conform to the spec.

Support for this API is signalled using the `lti_storage_target` parameter, which is included in
the LTI 1.3 login and launch requests. If this parameter absent, tools should use cookies instead
of trying to use this postMessage. The default value for this parameter is `_parent`, which means
messages should be sent to `window.parent`. When the value is something else (like `post_message_forwarding`),
the tool should send message to the frame with that name present at `window.parent.frames[lti_storage_target]`.

**Note:** When a tool is launched from within an active RCE (Rich Content Editor) this sibling
frame may not be available, since the RCE uses an iframe to represent the editor box. If the
message sent to this frame using this origin doesn't receive a timely response, the tool should
fall back to sending the message to the parent window using the wildcard `*` origin.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.get_data"
- key: the string key for the retrieved value
- message_id: any random string value. a UUID is easiest

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.get_data"
- key: the same key provided in the initial message
- value: the value, if any, stored at that key in Canvas's localstorage. `null` will be sent if the key/value pair doesn't exist.
- message_id: the same message_id provided in the initial message

```js
window.parent.frames['post_message_forwarding'].postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.get_data',
    key: 'hello',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  'http://sso.canvaslms.com'
)

window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.get_data',
    key: 'hello',
    message_id: '14556a4f-e9af-43f7-bd1f-d3e260d05a9f',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## requestFullWindowLaunch

Launches the tool that sent the event in a full-window context (ie not inside a Canvas iframe).

**Required properties:**

- subject: "requestFullWindowLaunch"
- data: either a string or an object
  - if a string, a url for relaunching the tool
  - if an object, has required sub-properties
- data.url: a url for relaunching the tool
- data.placement: the Canvas placement that the tool was launched in. Provided in the 1.3 id token
  under the custom claim section (`https://www.instructure.com/placement`).
- data.resource_link_id: the Canvas resource_link_id for the resource launched. Provided in the 1.3
  id token under the `resource_link` claim (`https://purl.imsglobal.org/spec/lti/claim/resource_link#id`).

**Optional properties:**

- data.launchType: defaults to "same_window"
  - "same_window": launches the tool in the same window, replacing Canvas entirely
  - "new_window": launches the tool in a new tab/window, which depends on user preference
  - "popup": launches the tool in a popup window
- data.launchOptions.width: for launchType: popup, defines the popup window's width. Defaults to 800.
- data.launchOptions.height: for launchType: popup, defines the popup window's height. Defaults to 600.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'requestFullWindowLaunch',
    data: {
      url: 'https://example-tool.com/launch',
      placement: 'course_navigation',
      launchType: 'new_window',
      launchOptions: {
        width: 1000,
        height: 800,
      },
    },
  },
  '*'
)
```

## toggleCourseNavigationMenu

Opens and closes the course navigation sidebar, giving more space for the tool to display.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "toggleCourseNavigationMenu"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'toggleCourseNavigationMenu'}, '*')
```

## lti.resourceImported

Notifies the Canvas page holding the tool that a resource has finished importing.
Canvas will respond by reloading the page, if the tool was present in the external
apps tray. Used on wiki pages.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.resourceImported"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.resourceImported'}, '*')
```

## lti.hideRightSideWrapper

Tells Canvas to remove the right side nav in the assignments view.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.hideRightSideWrapper"

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.hideRightSideWrapper',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.frameResize

Tells Canvas to change the height of the iframe containing the tool.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.frameResize"
- height: integer, in px

**Optional properties:**

- token: postMessage token, discussed above.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.frameResize',
    height: 400,
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.fetchWindowSize

Sends a postMessage event back to the tool with details about the window size of
the tool's containing iframe.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.fetchWindowSize.response"
- height: height of the iframe
- width: width of the iframe
- footer: height of the "#fixed_bottom" HTML element or 0 if not found
- offset: [jquery.offset()](https://api.jquery.com/offset/) of the iframe's wrapper
- scrollY: the number of px that the iframe is scrolled vertically

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.fetchWindowSize'}, '*')
```

## lti.showModuleNavigation

Toggles the module navigation footer based on the message's content.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.showModuleNavigation"
- show: Boolean, whether to show or hide the footer

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.showModuleNavigation',
    show: true,
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.scrollToTop

Scrolls the iframe all the way to the top of its container.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.scrollToTop"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.scrollToTop'}, '*')
```

## lti.setUnloadMessage

Sets a message to be shown in a browser dialog before page closes (ie
"Do you really want to leave this page?")

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.setUnloadMessage"

**Optional properties:**

- message: The message to be shown in the dialog. Most browser no longer
  support a custom message here, so a generic (built-in to the browser) message
  will be shown.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.setUnloadMessage',
    message: 'Are you sure you want to leave this app?',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.removeUnloadMessage

Clears any set message to be shown on page close.

Required properties

- subject: "lti.removeUnloadMessage"

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.removeUnloadMessage'}, '*')
```

## lti.screenReaderAlert

Shows an alert for screen readers.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.screenReaderAlert"
- body: The contents of the alert.

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.screenReaderAlert',
    body: 'An alert just for screen readers',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.showAlert

Shows an alert using Canvas's alert system, and includes the name of the LTI
tool that sent the message.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.showAlert"
- body: The contents of the alert - can either be a string, or JSON string.

**Optional properties:**

- alertType: "success", "warning", or "error". Defaults to "success".
- title: A display name for the tool. If not provided, Canvas will attempt to
  supply the tool name or default to "External Tool".

```js
window.parent.postMessage(
  {
    subject: 'lti.showAlert',
    alertType: 'warning',
    body: 'An warning to be shown',
    title: 'Tool Name',
  },
  '*'
)
```

## lti.enableScrollEvents

Sends a debounced postMessage event to the tool every time its containing
iframe is scrolled.

**Required properties:**

- subject: "lti.enableScrollEvents"

Returning postMessage includes the following properties:

- subject: "lti.scroll"
- scrollY: the number of px that the iframe is scrolled vertically

```js
window.parent.postMessage({subject: 'lti.enableScrollEvents'}, '*')
```
