doc/api/navigation_tools.md, before:

Navigation Tools
=================
Canvas allows External Tools to be surfaced in a variety of navigation menus.
The primary use case for using a navigation placement is to permit SSO to
display a dashboard of some type.

- [Course Navigation Placement](#course_navigation)
- [Account Navigation Placement](#account_navigation)
- [User Navigation Placement](#user_navigation)

<a name="course_navigation"></a>
Course Navigation Placement
=================
External tools can be configured to appear as links in course-level
navigation. If the tool is configured on an account, any course in
that account or any of its sub-accounts will have the link added to
the course navigation by default. If the tool is configured in a course, then
the navigation will only appear in that course.

There are some additional parameters that can be set on course
navigation tools to define default behavior. These settings allow
the tool to be disabled by default or visible only to some types
of users.

### Configuring
Configuration of the Course Navigation Placement depends on the LTI version.

*Via JSON (LTI 1.3)*
```
{  
   "title":"Cool Course Navigation Tool ",
   "scopes":[],
   "extensions":[  
      {  
         "domain":"coursenavexample.com",
         "tool_id":"course-nav",
         "platform":"canvas.instructure.com",
         "settings":{  
            "text":"Cool Course Navigation Tool Text",
            "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
            "placements":[                 
               {  
                  "text":"Cool App Dashboard",
                  "enabled":true,
                  "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
                  "placement":"course_navigation",
                  "message_type":"LtiResourceLinkRequest",
                  "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri/your_dashboard"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ],
   "public_jwk":{  
      "kty":"RSA",
      "alg":"RS256",
      "e":"AQAB",
      "kid":"8f796169-0ac4-48a3-a202-fa4f3d814fcd",
      "n":"nZD7QWmIwj-3N_RZ1qJjX6CdibU87y2l02yMay4KunambalP9g0fU9yZLwLX9WYJINcXZDUf6QeZ-SSbblET-h8Q4OvfSQ7iuu0WqcvBGy8M0qoZ7I-NiChw8dyybMJHgpiP_AyxpCQnp3bQ6829kb3fopbb4cAkOilwVRBYPhRLboXma0cwcllJHPLvMp1oGa7Ad8osmmJhXhM9qdFFASg_OCQdPnYVzp8gOFeOGwlXfSFEgt5vgeU25E-ycUOREcnP7BnMUk7wpwYqlE537LWGOV5z_1Dqcqc9LmN-z4HmNV7b23QZW4_mzKIOY4IqjmnUGgLU9ycFj5YGDCts7Q",
      "use":"sig"
   },
   "description":"1.3 Test Tool",
   "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri",
   "oidc_initiation_url":"https://your.oidc_initiation_url"
}
```

*Via XML (LTI 1.0-1.2)*
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cartridge_basiclti_link xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticc_v1p0"
    xmlns:blti = "http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imsbasiclti_v1p0"
    xmlns:lticm ="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticm_v1p0"
    xmlns:lticp ="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticp_v1p0"
    xmlns:xsi = "http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation = "http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticc_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticc_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imsbasiclti_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imsbasiclti_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticm_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticm_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticp_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticp_v1p0.xsd">
    <blti:launch_url>https://example.com/attendance</blti:launch_url>
    <blti:title>Attendance</blti:title>
    <blti:description>Provides an interactive seating chart and attendance tool</blti:description>
    <blti:extensions platform="canvas.instructure.com">
      <lticm:property name="privacy_level">public</lticm:property>
      <lticm:options name="course_navigation">
        <lticm:property name="enabled">true</lticm:property>
      </lticm:options>
    </blti:extensions>
</cartridge_basiclti_link>
```

For more examples, refer to the <a href="file.lti_dev_key_config.html"
target="_blank">Configuring</a> documentation.

### Advantages
The Course Navigation Placement is well suited for external apps that wish to
be surfaced in Canvas without having to implement an LTI deep linking workflow.
Once the tool is configured, no additional steps are required for users to see the
launch point (unless the tool is disabled by default). It is well suited for
tools that want to provide a simple SSO connection from Canvas to the external
application. A dashboard type experience can be provided by apps offering
services like:

- Course-level Analytics or tool settings
- Management of external course resources
- Rostering or Attendance
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- Allowing users to select multiple resources and generate line items for them
(LTI Advantage tools only)
- Allowing teachers or students to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- Canvas does not support Deep Linking from this placement, however
Assignment and Grading Services could be used to generate many line items in Canvas.
- There is no 'resource' context, only course context.

### Workflow
1. After configuring a course navigation tool, the instructor or student navigates
to their course in Canvas.
2. Then, they click a link in the course navigation menu.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders the application.

If the tool is disabled by default, the instructor must first <a
href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor-Guide/How-do-I-manage-Course-Navigation-links/ta-p/1020" target="_blank">
organize the navigation tabs</a> to surface the LTI launch point.

### Settings

All of these settings are contained under "course_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for course navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   default: 'enabled', 'disabled' (optional, 'enabled' by default)

    This specifies whether the link is turned on or off by default for courses. Course administrators will see the link appear in Settings just like any other link, and can explicitly order, enable and disable the link from there.

-   visibility: 'public', 'members', 'admins' (optional, 'public' by default)

    This specifies what types of users will see the link in the course navigation. "public" means anyone accessing the course, "members" means only users enrolled in the course, and "admins" means only Teachers, TAs, Designers and account admins will see the link.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   display_type &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    The layout type to use when launching the tool. Must be one of the following:
    * default

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and course navigation.
    * full_width

      Includes Canvas global navigation but does not include breadcrumb or course navigation

    * full_width_in_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and course navigation, and gives the tool access to the rest of the horizontal screen width.
    
    * in_nav_context
    
      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumbs, and course navigation.

    * borderless

      Does not include Canvas global navigation, course navigation, or breadcrumbs

-   windowTarget: \_blank (optional)

    When set to \_blank, the windowTarget propety allows you to configure a launch to happen in a new
    tab instead of in an iframe. Omit this if you want to launch in frame.

<a name="account_navigation"></a>
Account navigation links
=================
External tools can also be configured to appear as links in
account-level navigation. If the tool is configured on an account,
administrators in that account and any of its sub-accounts will see
the link in their account navigation.

### Configuring
Refer to the [Course Navigation Placement's](#course_navigation) configuring
section and simply replace **course_navigation** with **account_navigation**.

### Advantages
Once configured, the account_navigation placement surfaces the LTI launch point
in the account/sub-account navigation menu. This placement works well for:

- Account-level reporting and analytics tools
- Management of account-level tool resources or settings
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- Allowing admins to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- This placement does not provide any course or resource level context in the Launch.
- This is primarily a one-way launch; returning data to Canvas requires using
Canvas API.

### Workflow
1. After configuring an account navigation tool, the admin navigates
to the account.
2. Then, they click the LTI link in the account navigation menu.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders the application.

### Settings
All of these settings are contained under "account_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for account navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left-hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   display_type &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    The layout type to use when launching the tool. Must be one of the following:
    * default

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and account navigation.
    * full_width

      Includes Canvas global navigation but does not include breadcrumb or account navigation

    * full_width_in_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and account navigation, and gives the tool access to the rest of the horizontal screen width.

    * in_nav_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumbs, and course navigation.

    * borderless

      Does not include Canvas global navigation, account navigation, or breadcrumbs

-   windowTarget: \_blank (optional)

    When set to \_blank, the windowTarget propety allows you to configure a launch to happen in a new
    tab instead of in an iframe. Omit this if you want to launch in frame.

<a name="user_navigation"></a>
User navigation links
=================
External tools can also be configured to appear as links in
user-level navigation. If the tool is configured on a root account,
all users logged in to that account will see the link in their
profile navigation by default.

### Configuring
Refer to the [Course Navigation Placement's](#course_navigation) configuring
section and simply replace **course_navigation** with **user_navigation**.

User navigation links will only work if they are configured at
the **root account level**.

### Advantages
Once configured, the user_navigation placement surfaces the LTI launch point
in the users "Account" slide-out tray. This placement works well for:

- Student Planners
- Portfolio Management
- Management of user-level resources in an external application
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- User-level analytics or tool settings
- Allowing users to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- This placement does not provide any course or resource level context in the Launch.
- This is primarily a one-way launch. Returning data to Canvas requires using
Canvas API.

### Workflow
1. After configuring, the user clicks on the "Account" icon from the global
navigation side-bar.
2. Then, they click the LTI link in the tray that slides out.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders their application.

### Settings
All of these settings are contained under "user_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for user navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   visibility: 'public', 'members', 'admins' (optional, 'public' by default)

    This specifies what types of users will see the link in the user navigation. "public" and "members" means anyone will see it, and "admins" means only account admins will see the link.

Commit message:

Option to hide LTI 1.3 tool only in root acct nav
closes INTEROP-8089

Test plan:
- ensure you have an LTI 1.3 tool installed with the
  "account_navigation" placement.
- ensure you have a subaccount.
- go to a page anywhere under the root account (e.g. /accounts/123)
  and the tabs API endpoint (/api/v1/accounts/123/tabs) and make sure
  your tool shows up there.
- repeat the last step but use the subaccount ID and make sure the tool
  shows up.
- in Developer Keys, modify your LTI 1.3 dev key and add
    "root_account_only": "true"
  under the "account_navigation" placement.
- from a rails console, clear the cache with `Rails.cache.clear`
- check the root account page, root account tabs API endpoint, subaccount
  page, and subaccout tabs API endpoint as in the previous steps. Now,
  only the root account will show the tool.

TODO: test plan, documentation, specs
Change-Id: I11308b94aed6d1db25cf24e871bcf80ba669a4ec
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/319170
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Ryan Hawkins <ryan.hawkins@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Ryan Hawkins <ryan.hawkins@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Alexis Nast <alexis.nast@instructure.com>

doc/api/navigation_tools.md, after:

Navigation Tools
=================
Canvas allows External Tools to be surfaced in a variety of navigation menus.
The primary use case for using a navigation placement is to permit SSO to
display a dashboard of some type.

- [Course Navigation Placement](#course_navigation)
- [Account Navigation Placement](#account_navigation)
- [User Navigation Placement](#user_navigation)

<a name="course_navigation"></a>
Course Navigation Placement
=================
External tools can be configured to appear as links in course-level
navigation. If the tool is configured on an account, any course in
that account or any of its sub-accounts will have the link added to
the course navigation by default. If the tool is configured in a course, then
the navigation will only appear in that course.

There are some additional parameters that can be set on course
navigation tools to define default behavior. These settings allow
the tool to be disabled by default or visible only to some types
of users.

### Configuring
Configuration of the Course Navigation Placement depends on the LTI version.

*Via JSON (LTI 1.3)*
```
{  
   "title":"Cool Course Navigation Tool ",
   "scopes":[],
   "extensions":[  
      {  
         "domain":"coursenavexample.com",
         "tool_id":"course-nav",
         "platform":"canvas.instructure.com",
         "settings":{  
            "text":"Cool Course Navigation Tool Text",
            "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
            "placements":[                 
               {  
                  "text":"Cool App Dashboard",
                  "enabled":true,
                  "icon_url":"https://some.icon.url",
                  "placement":"course_navigation",
                  "message_type":"LtiResourceLinkRequest",
                  "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri/your_dashboard"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ],
   "public_jwk":{  
      "kty":"RSA",
      "alg":"RS256",
      "e":"AQAB",
      "kid":"8f796169-0ac4-48a3-a202-fa4f3d814fcd",
      "n":"nZD7QWmIwj-3N_RZ1qJjX6CdibU87y2l02yMay4KunambalP9g0fU9yZLwLX9WYJINcXZDUf6QeZ-SSbblET-h8Q4OvfSQ7iuu0WqcvBGy8M0qoZ7I-NiChw8dyybMJHgpiP_AyxpCQnp3bQ6829kb3fopbb4cAkOilwVRBYPhRLboXma0cwcllJHPLvMp1oGa7Ad8osmmJhXhM9qdFFASg_OCQdPnYVzp8gOFeOGwlXfSFEgt5vgeU25E-ycUOREcnP7BnMUk7wpwYqlE537LWGOV5z_1Dqcqc9LmN-z4HmNV7b23QZW4_mzKIOY4IqjmnUGgLU9ycFj5YGDCts7Q",
      "use":"sig"
   },
   "description":"1.3 Test Tool",
   "target_link_uri":"https://your.target_link_uri",
   "oidc_initiation_url":"https://your.oidc_initiation_url"
}
```

*Via XML (LTI 1.0-1.2)*
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cartridge_basiclti_link xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticc_v1p0"
    xmlns:blti = "http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imsbasiclti_v1p0"
    xmlns:lticm ="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticm_v1p0"
    xmlns:lticp ="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticp_v1p0"
    xmlns:xsi = "http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation = "http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticc_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticc_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imsbasiclti_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imsbasiclti_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticm_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticm_v1p0.xsd
    http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imslticp_v1p0 http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/lti/ltiv1p0/imslticp_v1p0.xsd">
    <blti:launch_url>https://example.com/attendance</blti:launch_url>
    <blti:title>Attendance</blti:title>
    <blti:description>Provides an interactive seating chart and attendance tool</blti:description>
    <blti:extensions platform="canvas.instructure.com">
      <lticm:property name="privacy_level">public</lticm:property>
      <lticm:options name="course_navigation">
        <lticm:property name="enabled">true</lticm:property>
      </lticm:options>
    </blti:extensions>
</cartridge_basiclti_link>
```

For more examples, refer to the <a href="file.lti_dev_key_config.html"
target="_blank">Configuring</a> documentation.

### Advantages
The Course Navigation Placement is well suited for external apps that wish to
be surfaced in Canvas without having to implement an LTI deep linking workflow.
Once the tool is configured, no additional steps are required for users to see the
launch point (unless the tool is disabled by default). It is well suited for
tools that want to provide a simple SSO connection from Canvas to the external
application. A dashboard type experience can be provided by apps offering
services like:

- Course-level Analytics or tool settings
- Management of external course resources
- Rostering or Attendance
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- Allowing users to select multiple resources and generate line items for them
(LTI Advantage tools only)
- Allowing teachers or students to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- Canvas does not support Deep Linking from this placement, however
Assignment and Grading Services could be used to generate many line items in Canvas.
- There is no 'resource' context, only course context.

### Workflow
1. After configuring a course navigation tool, the instructor or student navigates
to their course in Canvas.
2. Then, they click a link in the course navigation menu.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders the application.

If the tool is disabled by default, the instructor must first <a
href="https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Instructor-Guide/How-do-I-manage-Course-Navigation-links/ta-p/1020" target="_blank">
organize the navigation tabs</a> to surface the LTI launch point.

### Settings

All of these settings are contained under "course_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for course navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   default: 'enabled', 'disabled' (optional, 'enabled' by default)

    This specifies whether the link is turned on or off by default for courses. Course administrators will see the link appear in Settings just like any other link, and can explicitly order, enable and disable the link from there.

-   visibility: 'public', 'members', 'admins' (optional, 'public' by default)

    This specifies what types of users will see the link in the course navigation. "public" means anyone accessing the course, "members" means only users enrolled in the course, and "admins" means only Teachers, TAs, Designers and account admins will see the link.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   display_type &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    The layout type to use when launching the tool. Must be one of the following:
    * default

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and course navigation.
    * full_width

      Includes Canvas global navigation but does not include breadcrumb or course navigation

    * full_width_in_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and course navigation, and gives the tool access to the rest of the horizontal screen width.
    
    * in_nav_context
    
      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumbs, and course navigation.

    * borderless

      Does not include Canvas global navigation, course navigation, or breadcrumbs

-   windowTarget: \_blank (optional)

    When set to \_blank, the windowTarget propety allows you to configure a launch to happen in a new
    tab instead of in an iframe. Omit this if you want to launch in frame.

<a name="account_navigation"></a>
Account navigation links
=================
External tools can also be configured to appear as links in
account-level navigation. If the tool is configured on an account,
administrators in that account and any of its sub-accounts will see
the link in their account navigation.

### Configuring
Refer to the [Course Navigation Placement's](#course_navigation) configuring
section and simply replace **course_navigation** with **account_navigation**.

### Advantages
Once configured, the account_navigation placement surfaces the LTI launch point
in the account/sub-account navigation menu. This placement works well for:

- Account-level reporting and analytics tools
- Management of account-level tool resources or settings
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- Allowing admins to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- This placement does not provide any course or resource level context in the Launch.
- This is primarily a one-way launch; returning data to Canvas requires using
Canvas API.

### Workflow
1. After configuring an account navigation tool, the admin navigates
to the account.
2. Then, they click the LTI link in the account navigation menu.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders the application.

### Settings
All of these settings are contained under "account_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for account navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left-hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   display_type &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    The layout type to use when launching the tool. Must be one of the following:
    * default

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and account navigation.
    * full_width

      Includes Canvas global navigation but does not include breadcrumb or account navigation

    * full_width_in_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumb, and account navigation, and gives the tool access to the rest of the horizontal screen width.

    * in_nav_context

      Includes Canvas global navigation, breadcrumbs, and course navigation.

    * borderless

      Does not include Canvas global navigation, account navigation, or breadcrumbs

-   windowTarget: \_blank (optional)

    When set to \_blank, the windowTarget propety allows you to configure a launch to happen in a new
    tab instead of in an iframe. Omit this if you want to launch in frame.

-   root_account_only: &lt;boolean&gt; (optional)

    If set to true, the tool will not be shown in the account navigation for
    subaccounts. Defaults to false (show in root account and all subaccounts).

<a name="user_navigation"></a>
User navigation links
=================
External tools can also be configured to appear as links in
user-level navigation. If the tool is configured on a root account,
all users logged in to that account will see the link in their
profile navigation by default.

### Configuring
Refer to the [Course Navigation Placement's](#course_navigation) configuring
section and simply replace **course_navigation** with **user_navigation**.

User navigation links will only work if they are configured at
the **root account level**.

### Advantages
Once configured, the user_navigation placement surfaces the LTI launch point
in the users "Account" slide-out tray. This placement works well for:

- Student Planners
- Portfolio Management
- Management of user-level resources in an external application
- Canvas-to-app SSO
- User-level analytics or tool settings
- Allowing users to complete an <a href="file.oauth.html#accessing-canvas-api"
 target="_blank">OAuth2 flow</a> so a tool can run API requests on their behalf.

### Limitations/Challenges
- This placement does not provide any course or resource level context in the Launch.
- This is primarily a one-way launch. Returning data to Canvas requires using
Canvas API.

### Workflow
1. After configuring, the user clicks on the "Account" icon from the global
navigation side-bar.
2. Then, they click the LTI link in the tray that slides out.
3. The tool consumes the LTI launch and renders their application.

### Settings
All of these settings are contained under "user_navigation"

-   url: &lt;url&gt; (optional)

    This is the URL that will be POSTed to when users click the left tab. It can be the same as the tool's URL, or something different. Domain and URL matching are not enforced for user navigation links. In order to prevent security warnings for users, it is recommended that this URL be over SSL (https).
    This is required if a url is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   text: &lt;text&gt; (optional)

    This is the default text that will be shown in the left hand navigation as the text of the link. This can be overridden by language-specific settings if desired by using the labels setting.
    This is required if a text value is not set on the main tool configuration.

-   labels: &lt;set of locale-label pairs&gt; (optional)

    This can be used to specify different label names for different locales. For example, if an institution supports both English and Spanish interfaces, the text in the link should change depending on the language being displayed. This option lets you support multiple languages for a single tool.

-   enabled: &lt;boolean&gt; (required)

    Whether to enable this selection feature.

-   visibility: 'public', 'members', 'admins' (optional, 'public' by default)

    This specifies what types of users will see the link in the user navigation. "public" and "members" means anyone will see it, and "admins" means only account admins will see the link.
