doc/testing_with_selenium.md, before:

# Testing with Selenium

You may run the Selenium tests either natively or in docker.

## Running Selenium Tests Natively (Mac)

We're making a few assumptions here:
  - you're using an Apple computer
  - you've already installed Homebrew
  - you've already installed Postgres (postgresapp.com is an excellent option),
    and Postgres is running on your computer
  - you've already installed Node.js

0. Install `yarn` if you haven't already:

```sh
brew install yarn
```

If you find you need an older version of yarn, follow these instructions to
install the older version and switch to it:

[https://stackoverflow.com/a/52525732/3038677](https://stackoverflow.com/a/52525732/3038677)

1. Follow the instructions in `script/prepare/README.md` to setup the `prepare`
script.

You'll use the `prepare` script later to automate installing and updating Canvas
on your computer.

Note: some features of `prepare` only work if you have access to Instructure's
Gerrit host. See the README for details.

2. Install a web browser driver on your computer for the browser you wish to run
the tests in. Homebrew is the easiest way to go:

```sh
brew cask install chromedriver # necessary for running tests in Chrome
brew install geckodriver # necessary for running tests in Firefox
```

Now let's get Canvas ready to run the tests.

3. Copy the Selenium and database configuration files:

```sh
cp config/selenium.yml.example config/selenium.yml
cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
```

4. Use `prepare` to install Canvas plugins and dependencies, create databases,
run database migrations, etc:

```sh
prepare
```

You might encounter problems with some Ruby dependencies. The ["Dependency
Installation" section](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/wiki/Quick-Start#dependency-installation)
in the public Canvas LMS Github wiki has some useful tips.

4.a. Optional. Run delayed jobs in the foreground (not all Selenium tests need
this but some do):

```sh
script/delayed_job run
```

or run it in the background:

```sh
script/delayed_job run &
```

5. Run the Selenium tests:

```sh
bundle exec rspec spec/selenium
```

or run a specific Selenium test:

```sh
bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/accounts_spec.rb:36
```

## Running Selenium Tests in Docker

See the [Selenium section](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/blob/master/doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md#selenium)
of the `doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md` instructions.

Commit message:

Support running against headless chrome, fix flakey spec
Adds the ability to easily run Selenium tests locally against headless
chrome by adding `headless` and `window_size` config properties to
`selenium.yml`. Helpful when re-running specs many times to check for
flakiness.

Also attempts to improve the reliability of the new RCE course/link
options Selenium spec by adding an explicit wait for the course links
tray to appear and reducing the number of repetitions.

fixes LS-1744
flag = rce_enhancements

Test plan:
  - Ensure that running Selenium specs against regular chrome still
    works (aka without any config changes)
  - Add `headless: true` and `window_size: "1237,974"` (or similar) to
    `selenium.yml` and ensure specs pass the same way
  - Spec reliably passes the flakey_spec_catcher!

Change-Id: I3957ded0a431f19e620848b260e7f7d54da07bf6
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/256351
Reviewed-by: Robin Kuss <rkuss@instructure.com>
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Jeff Largent <jeff.largent@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Jeff Largent <jeff.largent@instructure.com>

doc/testing_with_selenium.md, after:

# Testing with Selenium

You may run the Selenium tests either natively or in docker.

## Running Selenium Tests Natively (Mac)

We're making a few assumptions here:
  - you're using an Apple computer
  - you've already installed Homebrew
  - you've already installed Postgres (postgresapp.com is an excellent option),
    and Postgres is running on your computer
  - you've already installed Node.js

0. Install `yarn` if you haven't already:

```sh
brew install yarn
```

If you find you need an older version of yarn, follow these instructions to
install the older version and switch to it:

[https://stackoverflow.com/a/52525732/3038677](https://stackoverflow.com/a/52525732/3038677)

1. Follow the instructions in `script/prepare/README.md` to setup the `prepare`
script.

You'll use the `prepare` script later to automate installing and updating Canvas
on your computer.

Note: some features of `prepare` only work if you have access to Instructure's
Gerrit host. See the README for details.

2. Install a web browser driver on your computer for the browser you wish to run
the tests in. Homebrew is the easiest way to go:

```sh
brew cask install chromedriver # necessary for running tests in Chrome
brew install geckodriver # necessary for running tests in Firefox
```

Now let's get Canvas ready to run the tests.

3. Copy the Selenium and database configuration files:

```sh
cp config/selenium.yml.example config/selenium.yml
cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
```

4. Use `prepare` to install Canvas plugins and dependencies, create databases,
run database migrations, etc:

```sh
prepare
```

You might encounter problems with some Ruby dependencies. The ["Dependency
Installation" section](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/wiki/Quick-Start#dependency-installation)
in the public Canvas LMS Github wiki has some useful tips.

4.a. Optional. Run delayed jobs in the foreground (not all Selenium tests need
this but some do):

```sh
script/delayed_job run
```

or run it in the background:

```sh
script/delayed_job run &
```

5. Run the Selenium tests:

```sh
bundle exec rspec spec/selenium
```

or run a specific Selenium test:

```sh
bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/accounts_spec.rb:36
```

### Running Tests against Headless Chrome

Selenium tests can be run against headless Chrome by changing a few properties in
`config/selenium.yml`. Specifically, you'll need to set `headless` to `true` and
`window_size` to something that makes sense, like so:

```yaml
  headless: true
  window_size: "1237,974"
```

This can be useful when you don't need to see what your test is doing, since it
can run in the background without stealing focus or interrupting other work. It's
especially useful when running specs many times to check for flakiness.

## Running Selenium Tests in Docker

See the [Selenium section](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/blob/master/doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md#selenium)
of the `doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md` instructions.
