doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md, before:

# Using Docker for Canvas Development

You can use Docker in your development environment for a more seamless
way to get started developing Canvas.

**Note for previous Docker for Canvas development users**
If you have a `docker-compose.override.yml`, you'll need to update it to version 2 or delete it.

## Automated setup script

The easiest way to get a working development environment is to run:

```
./script/docker_dev_setup.sh
```

This will guide you through the process of installing docker, dinghy/dory,
building the docker images, and setting up Canvas.

If you would rather do things manually, read on! And be sure to check the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section below.

## Recommendations

By default `docker-compose` will look at 2 files
- docker-compose.yml
- docker-compose.override.yml

If you do not specify your own `docker-compose.override.yml` file,
the `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh` (as well as the `./script/docker_dev_update.sh` script) will copy a working
one into the root directory for docker-compose to use.
The `docker-compose.override.yml` file is ignored by git in the `.gitignore` file, so you must provide one or run the
setup script before running docker-compose.
You may manually copy the `config/docker-compose.override.yml.example` to `docker-compose.override.yml` with the following
command: `cp config/docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml`.
Keep in mind copying this manually will overwrite any existing `docker-compose.override.yml` file, whereas the setup
script will not overwrite an existing configuration.
If you need more than what the default override provides you should use a `.env` file to set your `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.

### Create your own local docker-compose overrides file(s)

In order to tweak your local environment (which you may want to do for any of several reasons),
you can create your own [docker-compose overrides file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/).
To get docker-compose to pick up your file and use its settings, you'll want to set an
environment variable `COMPOSE_FILE`.  The place to do this is in a `.env` file.
Create a `docker-compose.local.<username>.yml` and add a `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.
This variable can then have a list of files, separated by `:`.  You need to keep the main docker-compose and docker-compose.override (generated by `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh`) otherwise everything will be ruined.

```bash
echo "COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml" >> .env
```

Setup your user-specific docker-compose override file as an empty file using the following command:

```bash
echo "version: '2.3'" > docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml
```

## Getting Started
After you have [installed the dependencies](getting_docker.md). You'll need to copy
over the required configuration files.

The `docker-compose/config` directory has some config files already set up to use
the linked containers supplied by config. Only copy yamls, not the contents of new-jenkins folder. 
You can just copy them to
`config/`:

```
$ cp docker-compose/config/*.yml config/
```

Now you're ready to build all of the containers. This will take a while as a lot is going on here.

- Images are downloaded and built
- Database is created and initial setup is run
- Assets are compiled

```bash
docker-compose build
docker-compose run --rm web ./script/install_assets.sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:create db:initial_setup
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test
```

Now you should be able to start up and access canvas like you would any other container.
```bash
docker-compose up
open http://canvas.docker/
```

## Normal Usage

Normally you can just start everything with `docker-compose up`, and
access Canvas at http://canvas.docker/

After pulling new code, you'll want to update all your local gems, rebuild your
docker images, pull plugin code, run migrations, and recompile assets. This can
all be done with one command:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh
```

Changes you're making are not showing up? See the Caveats section below.
Ctrl-C your `docker-compose up` window and restart.

## Debugging

### Byebug

A byebug server is running in development mode on the web and job containers
to allow you to remotely control any sessions where `byebug` has yielded
execution. To use it, you will need to enable `REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED` in your
`docker-compose.<user>.override.yml` file in your app's root directory. If you don't have
this file, you will need to create it and add the following:

```
version: '2.3'
services:
  web:
    environment:
      REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED: 'true'
```

Make sure you add this new file to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

You can attach to the byebug server once the container is started:

Debugging web:

```
docker-compose exec web bin/byebug-remote
```

Debugging jobs:

```
docker-compose exec jobs bin/byebug-remote
```

### Prefer pry?

Unfortunately, you can't start a pry session in a remote byebug session. What
you can do instead is use `pry-remote`.

1. Add `pry-remote` to your Gemfile
2. Run `docker-compose run --rm web bundle install` to install `pry-remote`
3. Add `binding.remote_pry` in code where you want execution to yield a pry REPL
4. Launch pry-remote and have it wait for execution to yield to you:
```
docker-compose exec web pry-remote --wait
```

## Running tests

```
$ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec
```

## Running javascript tests

First off, there's some general JS testing info in
[testing_javascript.md](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/blob/master/doc/testing_javascript.md).
That will guide you on running JS tests natively.  To run them in docker, read on.

First add `docker-compose/js-tests.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in
`.env`. Then prepare that container with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

If you run into issues with that command, either during initial setup or after
updating master, try to fix it with a `nuke_node`:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests ./script/nuke_node.sh
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

### QUnit Karma Tests in Headless Chrome

Run all QUnit tests in watch mode with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests
```

Or, if you're iterating on something and want to just run a targeted test file
in watch mode, set the `JSPEC_PATH` env var, e.g.:

```
docker-compose run --rm -e JSPEC_PATH=spec/coffeescripts/util/deparamSpec.js js-tests
```

### Jest Tests

Run all Jest tests with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest
```

Or to run a targeted subset of tests in watch mode, use `test:jest:watch` and
specify the paths to the test files as one or more arguments, e.g.:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest:watch app/jsx/actAs/__tests__/ActAsModal.test.js
```

## Selenium

To enable Selenium: Add `docker-compose/selenium.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

The container used to run the selenium browser is only started when spinning up
all docker-compose containers, or when specified explicitly. The selenium
container needs to be started before running any specs that require selenium.

```sh
docker-compose up selenium-firefox # or selenium-chrome
```

With the container running, you should be able to open a VNC session:

```sh
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumff.docker          (firefox)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumch.docker:5901     (chrome)
```

Now just run your choice of selenium specs:

```sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```


## Extra Services

### Cassandra

If you're using the analytics package, you'll also need Cassandra. The
Cassandra configuration isn't enabled by default. Add `docker-compose/cassandra.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`

Then:
- Uncomment configuration in config/cassandra.yml
- See config/cassandra.yml.example for further setup instructions
- to invoke cqlsh as directed in cassandra.yml.example use:
```sh
docker-compose exec cassandra cqlsh
```

### Mail Catcher

To enable Mail Catcher: Add `docker-compose/mailcatcher.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Email is often sent through background jobs if you spin up the `jobs` container.
If you would like to test or preview any notifications, simply trigger the email
through its normal actions, and it should immediately show up in the emulated
webmail inbox available here: http://mail.canvas.docker/

## Tips

It will likely be helpful to alias the various docker-compose commands like `docker-compose run --rm web` because that can get tiring to type over and over. Here are some recommended aliases you can add to your `~/.bash_profile` and reload your Terminal.

```
alias dc='docker-compose'
alias dcu='docker-compose up'
alias dcr='docker-compose run --rm web'
alias dcrx='docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec'
```

Now you can just run commands like `dcrx rake db:migrate` or `dcr bundle install`

## Troubleshooting

### Building docker container
If you get an error about some gems requiring a newer ruby, you may have to change `2.4-xenial` to `2.5` in the `FROM` line in Dockerfile.

### Permissions
If you are having trouble running the `web` container, make sure that permissions on the directory are permissive.  You can try the owner change (less disruptive):

```
chown -R 1000:1000 canvas-lms
```

Instead of `1000`, you may need to use `9999` -- the `docker` user inside the container may have uid `9999`.

Or the permissions change (which will make Docker work, but causes the git working directory to become filthy):

```
chmod a+rwx -R canvas-lms
```

If your distro is equipped with [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux),
make sure it is not interfering.

```
$ sestatus
...
Current mode:                   disabled
...

```

If so, it can be disabled temporarily with:

```
sudo setenforce 0
```

Or it can be disabled permanently by editing `/etc/selinux/config` thusly:

```
SELINUX=disabled
```

### Performance
If you are having performance or other issues with your web container
starting up, you may try adding `DISABLE_SPRING: 1` to your
`docker-compose.override.yml` file, like so:

```
web: &WEB
  environment:
    DISABLE_SPRING: 1
```

Sometimes, very poor performance (or not loading at all) can be due to webpack
problems. Running
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake canvas:compile_assets` again, or
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake js:webpack_development` again, may help.


### DNS
If you are getting DNS resolution errors, and you use Docker for Mac or Linux,
make sure [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) is running:

```
dory status
```

If dory is not running, you can start it with:

```
dory up
```

Alternatively, you can use Dinghy or Traefik to handle DNS resolution.

Commit message:

rails 6 spec error formatter fix, plus docs
refs FOO-1426
flag=none

test plan:
 - run some selenium specs that are currently failing under rails 6,
   e.g. spec/selenium/login_logout_spec.rb, with `--options
   spec/spec.opts` as outlined in the new docs. after starting up the
   chrome selenium container (see the section of the docs preceding what
   is added here), the full command is:

   docker-compose run --rm -e CANVAS_RAILS6_0=1 web bundle exec rspec \
     --options spec/spec.opts spec/selenium/login_logout_spec.rb

   which, if you haven't run rails 6 specs lately, you'll probably find
   needs to be preceded by:

   docker-compose run --rm -e CANVAS_RAILS6_0=1 web bundle install

 - follow the docs to pull the `spec_failures` out of the container and
   verify that it exists with HTML formatted error reports

Change-Id: I52b39372f65ad76b859076af980133efe790bd45
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/c/canvas-lms/+/256737
QA-Review: August Thornton <august@instructure.com>
Product-Review: August Thornton <august@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Ethan Vizitei <evizitei@instructure.com>
Tested-by: Service Cloud Jenkins <svc.cloudjenkins@instructure.com>

doc/docker/developing_with_docker.md, after:

# Using Docker for Canvas Development

You can use Docker in your development environment for a more seamless
way to get started developing Canvas.

**Note for previous Docker for Canvas development users**
If you have a `docker-compose.override.yml`, you'll need to update it to version 2 or delete it.

## Automated setup script

The easiest way to get a working development environment is to run:

```
./script/docker_dev_setup.sh
```

This will guide you through the process of installing docker, dinghy/dory,
building the docker images, and setting up Canvas.

If you would rather do things manually, read on! And be sure to check the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section below.

## Recommendations

By default `docker-compose` will look at 2 files
- docker-compose.yml
- docker-compose.override.yml

If you do not specify your own `docker-compose.override.yml` file,
the `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh` (as well as the `./script/docker_dev_update.sh` script) will copy a working
one into the root directory for docker-compose to use.
The `docker-compose.override.yml` file is ignored by git in the `.gitignore` file, so you must provide one or run the
setup script before running docker-compose.
You may manually copy the `config/docker-compose.override.yml.example` to `docker-compose.override.yml` with the following
command: `cp config/docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml`.
Keep in mind copying this manually will overwrite any existing `docker-compose.override.yml` file, whereas the setup
script will not overwrite an existing configuration.
If you need more than what the default override provides you should use a `.env` file to set your `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.

### Create your own local docker-compose overrides file(s)

In order to tweak your local environment (which you may want to do for any of several reasons),
you can create your own [docker-compose overrides file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/).
To get docker-compose to pick up your file and use its settings, you'll want to set an
environment variable `COMPOSE_FILE`.  The place to do this is in a `.env` file.
Create a `docker-compose.local.<username>.yml` and add a `COMPOSE_FILE` environment variable.
This variable can then have a list of files, separated by `:`.  You need to keep the main docker-compose and docker-compose.override (generated by `./script/docker_dev_setup.sh`) otherwise everything will be ruined.

```bash
echo "COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml:docker-compose.override.yml:docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml" >> .env
```

Setup your user-specific docker-compose override file as an empty file using the following command:

```bash
echo "version: '2.3'" > docker-compose.local.`whoami`.yml
```

## Getting Started
After you have [installed the dependencies](getting_docker.md). You'll need to copy
over the required configuration files.

The `docker-compose/config` directory has some config files already set up to use
the linked containers supplied by config. Only copy yamls, not the contents of new-jenkins folder. 
You can just copy them to
`config/`:

```
$ cp docker-compose/config/*.yml config/
```

Now you're ready to build all of the containers. This will take a while as a lot is going on here.

- Images are downloaded and built
- Database is created and initial setup is run
- Assets are compiled

```bash
docker-compose build
docker-compose run --rm web ./script/install_assets.sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:create db:initial_setup
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test
```

Now you should be able to start up and access canvas like you would any other container.
```bash
docker-compose up
open http://canvas.docker/
```

## Normal Usage

Normally you can just start everything with `docker-compose up`, and
access Canvas at http://canvas.docker/

After pulling new code, you'll want to update all your local gems, rebuild your
docker images, pull plugin code, run migrations, and recompile assets. This can
all be done with one command:

```
./script/docker_dev_update.sh
```

Changes you're making are not showing up? See the Caveats section below.
Ctrl-C your `docker-compose up` window and restart.

## Debugging

### Byebug

A byebug server is running in development mode on the web and job containers
to allow you to remotely control any sessions where `byebug` has yielded
execution. To use it, you will need to enable `REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED` in your
`docker-compose.<user>.override.yml` file in your app's root directory. If you don't have
this file, you will need to create it and add the following:

```
version: '2.3'
services:
  web:
    environment:
      REMOTE_DEBUGGING_ENABLED: 'true'
```

Make sure you add this new file to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

You can attach to the byebug server once the container is started:

Debugging web:

```
docker-compose exec web bin/byebug-remote
```

Debugging jobs:

```
docker-compose exec jobs bin/byebug-remote
```

### Prefer pry?

Unfortunately, you can't start a pry session in a remote byebug session. What
you can do instead is use `pry-remote`.

1. Add `pry-remote` to your Gemfile
2. Run `docker-compose run --rm web bundle install` to install `pry-remote`
3. Add `binding.remote_pry` in code where you want execution to yield a pry REPL
4. Launch pry-remote and have it wait for execution to yield to you:
```
docker-compose exec web pry-remote --wait
```

## Running tests

```
$ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec
```

## Running javascript tests

First off, there's some general JS testing info in
[testing_javascript.md](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms/blob/master/doc/testing_javascript.md).
That will guide you on running JS tests natively.  To run them in docker, read on.

First add `docker-compose/js-tests.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in
`.env`. Then prepare that container with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

If you run into issues with that command, either during initial setup or after
updating master, try to fix it with a `nuke_node`:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests ./script/nuke_node.sh
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn install
```

### QUnit Karma Tests in Headless Chrome

Run all QUnit tests in watch mode with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests
```

Or, if you're iterating on something and want to just run a targeted test file
in watch mode, set the `JSPEC_PATH` env var, e.g.:

```
docker-compose run --rm -e JSPEC_PATH=spec/coffeescripts/util/deparamSpec.js js-tests
```

### Jest Tests

Run all Jest tests with:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest
```

Or to run a targeted subset of tests in watch mode, use `test:jest:watch` and
specify the paths to the test files as one or more arguments, e.g.:

```
docker-compose run --rm js-tests yarn test:jest:watch app/jsx/actAs/__tests__/ActAsModal.test.js
```

## Selenium

To enable Selenium: Add `docker-compose/selenium.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

The container used to run the selenium browser is only started when spinning up
all docker-compose containers, or when specified explicitly. The selenium
container needs to be started before running any specs that require selenium.

```sh
docker-compose up selenium-firefox # or selenium-chrome
```

With the container running, you should be able to open a VNC session:

```sh
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumff.docker          (firefox)
open vnc://secret:secret@seleniumch.docker:5901     (chrome)
```

Now just run your choice of selenium specs:

```sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```

### Capturing Rails Logs and Screenshots

When selenium specs fail, the root cause isn't always obvious from the
stdout/stderr of `rspec`. E.g. you might just see an `Uncaught Error: Internal
Server Error`. To see the actual stack trace that led to the 500 response, you
have to look at the rails logs. One way to do that is to just view
`/usr/src/app/log/test.log` after the fact, or `tail -f` it during the run.
Note that the log directory is a non-synchronized volume mount, so you need to
actually view it from inside the `web` container rather than just on your
native host.

But here's a hot tip -- you can capture the portion of the rails log that
corresponds to each failed spec, plus a screenshot of the page at the time of
the failure, by running your specs with the `spec/spec.opts` options like:

```sh
docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rspec --options spec/spec.opts spec/selenium/dashboard_spec.rb
```

This will produce a `log/spec_failures` directory in the container, which you
can then `docker cp` to your host to view in a browser:

```sh
docker cp "$(docker-compose ps -q web | head -1)":/usr/src/app/log/spec_failures .
open -a "Google Chrome" file:///"$(pwd)"/spec_failures
```

That directory tree contains a web page per spec failure, each featuring a
colorized rails log and a browser screenshot taken at the time of the failure.

## Extra Services

### Cassandra

If you're using the analytics package, you'll also need Cassandra. The
Cassandra configuration isn't enabled by default. Add `docker-compose/cassandra.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`

Then:
- Uncomment configuration in config/cassandra.yml
- See config/cassandra.yml.example for further setup instructions
- to invoke cqlsh as directed in cassandra.yml.example use:
```sh
docker-compose exec cassandra cqlsh
```

### Mail Catcher

To enable Mail Catcher: Add `docker-compose/mailcatcher.override.yml` to your `COMPOSE_FILE` var in `.env`.

Email is often sent through background jobs if you spin up the `jobs` container.
If you would like to test or preview any notifications, simply trigger the email
through its normal actions, and it should immediately show up in the emulated
webmail inbox available here: http://mail.canvas.docker/

## Tips

It will likely be helpful to alias the various docker-compose commands like `docker-compose run --rm web` because that can get tiring to type over and over. Here are some recommended aliases you can add to your `~/.bash_profile` and reload your Terminal.

```
alias dc='docker-compose'
alias dcu='docker-compose up'
alias dcr='docker-compose run --rm web'
alias dcrx='docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec'
```

Now you can just run commands like `dcrx rake db:migrate` or `dcr bundle install`

## Troubleshooting

### Building docker container
If you get an error about some gems requiring a newer ruby, you may have to change `2.4-xenial` to `2.5` in the `FROM` line in Dockerfile.

### Permissions
If you are having trouble running the `web` container, make sure that permissions on the directory are permissive.  You can try the owner change (less disruptive):

```
chown -R 1000:1000 canvas-lms
```

Instead of `1000`, you may need to use `9999` -- the `docker` user inside the container may have uid `9999`.

Or the permissions change (which will make Docker work, but causes the git working directory to become filthy):

```
chmod a+rwx -R canvas-lms
```

If your distro is equipped with [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux),
make sure it is not interfering.

```
$ sestatus
...
Current mode:                   disabled
...

```

If so, it can be disabled temporarily with:

```
sudo setenforce 0
```

Or it can be disabled permanently by editing `/etc/selinux/config` thusly:

```
SELINUX=disabled
```

### Performance
If you are having performance or other issues with your web container
starting up, you may try adding `DISABLE_SPRING: 1` to your
`docker-compose.override.yml` file, like so:

```
web: &WEB
  environment:
    DISABLE_SPRING: 1
```

Sometimes, very poor performance (or not loading at all) can be due to webpack
problems. Running
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake canvas:compile_assets` again, or
`docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rake js:webpack_development` again, may help.


### DNS
If you are getting DNS resolution errors, and you use Docker for Mac or Linux,
make sure [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) is running:

```
dory status
```

If dory is not running, you can start it with:

```
dory up
```

Alternatively, you can use Dinghy or Traefik to handle DNS resolution.
